Be careful. they're searching
everybody for contraband.
Might be the last X-ray for a while.
with how everything is now.
How many plays left?
Three.
Maybe four.
Thank you.
Tanya. have you seen my stopwatch?
I had it with me before.
No. haven't seen it.
What is that?
It's music.
That's contraband. You're gonna
get us into trouble. Turn it off.
You used to love it when I found us
Western music back in Moscow.
We don't live in Moscow anymore
if you hadn't noticed. Tanya.
How could I not notice?
Stuck here alone most of the time
while you're who knows where.
Did you just shush me?
That's enough. You have to behave. Tanya.
No more of these bone records.
Behave? You sound like my mother. Valya!
I don't have time for this. I need
to find my stopwatch. I'm very late.
Music's the one thing that
I have from my old life.
- The one fucking thing!
- Yes. yes.
Yes.
I gave up everything to be here with you.
- Got it. Got it.
- Valya.
Yes. yes. I've heard it all before.
It's all my fault. I understand.
- I can't do this now. Tanya.
- You're not even really here at all.
You might as well be on the fucking moon!
Commencing powered descent
to lunar surface.
Automatic descent initiated.
- Confirm undocking.
- Make room.
Undocking confirmed.
Landing procedure complete.
Commencing extension of the hab.
Hab extension complete.
And then my big speech
from the lunar surface.
And we're live with Arseni Vetrov.
who proves any man can go to space.
Stop joking around.
Two weeks on the moon are done.
The relief crew's arrived.
Time for powered ascent. Go.
Hatch sealed.
Prepared for liftoff.
- No!
- What?
Are you gonna fly up to Pavel in the Soyuz
with the hab dangling off the side?
Have you tried flying straight like that?
Do you see the problem?
- Yeah.
- Great.
Pow. pow. There go your bolts.
Excellent impression.
Hab jettisoned.
Prepared for liftoff.
All right. he's fucked it up again.
Let's go again from the top.
Hey.
I don't want any excuses. Sasha.
I'm not making excuses.
You being a pain in the arse is not new.
- This is standard cosmonaut training.
- What's going on?
This mission is dangerous.
- Every mission is dangerous. Valya.
- Not like this.
Look. I'm the one going up.
If anyone should be nervous. it's me.
Yeah. you should be.
You're going to the moon
practically naked in a balloon.
It's not even close
to being finished properly.
You're in there joking around.
I don't know what you
don't understand about this.
You don't think I can do this.
We've just run that two dozen times.
How many did you mess up?
- Fuck you.
- There's a professional.
Do I have to remind you
who was the better pilot in the Air Force?
Are you gonna fly a MiG to the moon?
Space flight is about discipline. Sasha.
It's not about showing off.
You fucking child.
I'm sorry.
You've been uptight all day.
What's going on?
I just…
Everything.
This insane mission. security.
Everyone's running around
scared of their own shadows.
The stress is getting to me.
I shouted at Tanya this morning
for nothing.
Just let her have it. No reason at all.
It's normal.
Anastasia and I do nothing but argue.
About everything.
This was more than arguing.
I told her to behave.
Yeah. I know.
I should have stayed and talked to her.
Should've said sorry but I just…
I want things to go back to the way
they were a couple of years ago.
I've been so focused on my work.
and I worry she's dissatisfied
with me.
- What?
- Nothing. It's just…
If I'm ever in that situation with a woman.
which I very rarely am.
I have this maneuver.
You get behind her and you flip her over...
My God.
That's not what I'm talking about.
- Stop. Stop. stop. stop.
- I thought you'd…
Forget it. Forget it. Whoa…
- That's not…
- Sorry.
Tell me.
Tell me. Tell me the maneuver.
So you get behind her…
And then you lick all the way up.
- Just stop talking. Sasha. Stop talking.
- I get it. Sorry.
Here we go.
She's beautiful. isn't she?
44.7 knots.
Fastest in the world.
Yeah.
But how much pressure can she withstand?
Design depth is 550 meters.
About 56 atmospheres.
And that?
Much more. Over a hundred atmospheres.
But it is ancient.
There's wisdom in years.
Found an ocean up there. did you?
…pressure spheres go
in front of the circuit bay…
He found it.
The Chief Designer. he finally found it.
- What?
- The final piece to our puzzle.
The probe that will go down to Venus.
He'll be back with it tomorrow.
This whole area will need to be cleared.
Does it have the right specs?
It better. The Venus launch window's
in a few weeks.
It will need some refurbishment.
but that is why you were chosen
for this task.
Again. Mikhail. you do not need
to raise your hand to speak.
Sorry.
No.
- What is it?
- Well.
how will he get it into Star City
with security so high?
Leave that to him.
All right. let's begin preparations.
Hi.
I'm sorry.
I had to go to training.
I couldn't deal with all that then.
Couldn't deal with me. you mean?
No. No. that is not what I mean.
I just want you to be happy.
Yeah?
Make me.
What?
I said. "Make me."
My God.
You okay?
Yeah. Fine.
I just got a cramp.
I'm fine.
Sorry.
It's nothing.
I'm sorry.
No. I'm sorry.
You're back.
How did training go?
Valya won't get off my arse.
Well. then you probably deserve it.
My supportive wife.
have you been drinking?
If Valya thinks you're screwing up.
it's because you are.
Be easier just to fly the lander myself
than deal with
all this call-and-response nonsense.
It's just to keep us busy.
Your big head isn't gonna fit
inside your helmet.
No helmets.
What?
No space suits.
Stop joking.
Okay.
No space suits to land on the moon.
Well. you know.
two of us have to fit inside the lander.
Sasha. that's too dangerous.
- You cannot...
- No. it's fine. I'm not scared.
Look. there's plenty of room for me.
my ego and Arseni in the lander.
If I'm wrong.
you can say "I told you so"
when I'm a red stain on the moon.
I'm too young for a second husband.
Halt.
Open the gate.
I have equipment here for the Luna mission
and I need to get it to a lab now.
I need to see the back of the truck.
This is highly sensitive
scientific equipment.
I will not have it manhandled.
Now open the gate.
What's going on here?
Off you go.
Comrade Colonel. these new security
protocols are incredibly disruptive
given the lunar launch is in three days.
This mission can't afford holdups.
What this mission can't afford
is another breach.
You know the Americans are trying to
sneak something into Star City.
Their only hope of gaining ground
is to sabotage Luna 17.
The Americans won't have anything
to sabotage
if we're not ready for the launch.
Well. I'll be quick.
Let's have a look.
Is it going to be ready on time then.
the lunar base?
Some of your engineers are questioning
whether you can deliver.
I don't have time for this.
What's that?
- That's equipment for the lunar mission.
- What kind of equipment?
Fuel tanks.
There's nothing of that size
in the manifest.
Lift up that cover.
Comrade Colonel. over here!
Let this one through.
Close it up.
Let's go.
Here they are. the crew of Luna 17.
Our next Heroes of the Soviet Union.
For your letters to your wives.
Arseni.
In case we die on the mission.
I'll use mine from last time.
Don't worry. we can draft
a letter to your wife if you like.
It would be heartfelt but strong.
Patriotic. of course.
- You can read it.
- No. no need.
I'm sure it's fine.
It's Sasha.
Valya's not here.
No. I know.
This is for you.
It's not even to read.
Just to have.
Just to have?
Yeah…
In case I don't come back.
Can you just hold on to it for me?
Please.
Sorry.
Star City Luna 17.
we are starting oxygen flow.
Copy Luna 17.
Capsule leak check in progress.
Cabin pressure is normal.
Copy. Luna 17.
Star City. Luna 17.
we're ready for launch.
Received. Luna 17.
Feed one.
Key in launch position.
Open prop valves for launch.
Motors one through five.
Feed two.
Copy. feed two vent.
That's a go for launch.
And launch.
We are on course for orbital insertion.
Chief Designer.
Tanya.
What?
How about a night in Moscow?
We'll go and see a concert this weekend.
You serious?
Why not?
We always used to go.
Valya. there's no way
we can get passes to Moscow.
Everything's locked down.
Security should loosen up now.
The mission's launched.
In three more days.
we'll have a base on the moon.
A base?
But you're not on it.
I told them I couldn't go.
I've got a date with my wife.
They don't need you here?
My part's done.
It's in their hands now.
One jar. please.
Eggs?
No. I'm fine for eggs.
I'll just take some honey.
No. I'm out of honey.
Out again?
That's the third time this month
you've been out.
I know. I'm very sorry.
When will you have it restocked?
I don't know.
The guards took away
my last two shipments.
I understand now.
Well. thank you.
Zoya?
Zoya! Are you here alone?
No. I'm here with my mom.
Where is she?
Over there.
Hi. Zoya's mom?
Hi. I'm her music teacher at her school.
Zoya's a really talented pianist.
But you must know.
She has… She has a natural ability.
Thank you very much.
I also tutor piano.
Perhaps we could have a session.
Would you both like to come
to my place this afternoon?
Say three o'clock?
- Yeah. that would be great.
- Yeah?
Well. it's North Block. apartment 40.
I'll see you then.
- Bye.
Bye. Zoya.
What is it?
It's a bathysphere.
A submersible for deep sea observation.
The atmospheric pressure
on the surface of Venus
is more than 90 atmospheres.
which is the same as 900 meters
deep in the ocean.
So we'll send our equipment down in this.
To Venus?
To Venus.
Incredible.
Are you sure you want to be telling
more people about this mission?
I trust Valya with my life.
I only wish he could go on the journey.
but his absence would be felt.
Then why bring him here?
To train the ones who are going instead.
I'd be honored.
Your time is short.
The next launch window to Venus...
Swiftly approaching indeed.
which is why we need to send these modules
to Baikonur as soon as possible.
And because of the secrecy of it.
we cannot let anyone.
not even the cosmonauts.
know the true nature of the mission
until just before the launch.
Well. that's the case with most missions.
We're all sufficiently trained
for a launch on the Luna modules.
Precisely. And the rest.
they can learn on their way there.
And who am I to train?
Now. that's the appropriate question.
It's one thing to find someone
who won't be missed for a few days.
quite another to find someone
who won't be missed for nine months.
Preferably somebody
with very little family.
Someone with nothing to lose.
Very good. Again.
…If you hadn't noticed. Tanya.
Did you just shush me?
That's enough. You have to behave. Tanya.
No more of these bone records.
Behave? You sound like my mother. Valya!
Do you like the chai?
It's my favorite.
but it's so hard to get in Star City.
It's delicious.
Thank you.
Just watch your finger placement
on there. yeah.
One more time.
Working with kids.
teaching music. you must love it.
I do. I love it so much.
Be careful.
He's thousands of kilometers away
in Kazakhstan.
- Wait. Behind me.
- Okay.
Before I came here. I was a rehearsal
pianist for the Moscow City Ballet.
That's incredible.
Yeah. it was.
And you said you worked in administration.
What does that mean?
Irina.
You work in administration?
I'm basically just a glorified secretary.
I doubt that.
You have to be someone important
to get your child into that school.
or be important to someone important.
That sounds nice.
Being important to someone important.
I gave up everything
to be here with you. Valya.
- Yes. yes. it's all my fault.
- You're not even really here at all.
You might as well be on the fucking moon!
- Are you feeling okay?
- May I use your toilet?
Yeah. of course. just through there.
Very good. Zoya.
One more time.
Zoya. let's try something new.
Zoya. Put it on there.
Nice.
Has Zoya finished with practice?
Not quite. It's introductory stuff.
but I think it's never too early
to start with music theory.
And Zoya's a really quick learner.
Yeah. she picks up on a lot.
Please sit.
And what about you?
Do you have any children?
No. Not… no.
Just the husband.
What's your husband do?
My husband's Valya Mironov.
I'm sorry. We're new here.
Should I know him?
You don't know Valya Mironov?
I'm so embarrassed.
No. no. I'm sorry.
I don't…
How great.
You just know me.
He's a cosmonaut.
He's been to the moon.
You must be very proud.
I am.
What's he like?
Valya?
He's good.
He's solid.
Very hardworking. Bit too hardworking.
Serious.
Though he wasn't always.
What does your husband do?
I don't have one.
I'm so sorry.
- Did he pass?
- No.
- I apologize.
- No. no.
Zoya's father…
He's a…
He's not a good man.
What happened between us…
It is my…
Sorry. That was too much.
- No. not at all.
- We should go.
Zoya.
- Come on.
- Don't worry about that.
No. no. it's okay.
It's okay.
Hello.
Hi.
And Zoya's mom.
Hi. can I call you Irina?
- Are you feeling okay?
- May I use your toilet?
I'm so sorry.
- Did he pass?
- No.
- I apologize.
- No. no.
Zoya's father...
…not a good man.
What happened between us…
It is my…
Zoya's father…
Sorry. That was too much.
- No. not at all.
- We should go.
Zoya.
- Come on.
- Don't worry about that.
No. no. it's okay.
Condensation tank transfer complete.
Ground Control.
Copy. Luna 17.
Now roll right to zero-six-zero
and null your rates.
Copy. Ground Control.
And be careful. Comrade Polivanov.
you wouldn't want your own wife
to outshine you.
Yeah.
"First woman on the moon
coaches her devoted husband
through his first moon mission."
How about a smile?
One moment.
Chief Designer.
301287319. Program 22. copy?
Copy.
At least you've all been spared
Arseni doing his speech.
He's doing this voice…
"This monumental stride."
I don't sound like that.
Pavel?
- Yeah. you do.
- This is just my voice.
I'm not doing it on purpose.
Yes. "this is just your voice."
- "That is not your voice."
- Okay.
"This monumental stride…."
We've lost them.
It's probably just interference.
- They should be back in…
- Can you check. in case your…
I think we have them back.
You know you can just tell Arseni you
can't bear to hear any more of his speech.
You don't have to cut us off.
Orbital module
atmospheric pressure report.
760 millimeters.
Cabin temperature?
Twenty-nine Celsius.
- Sir.
- Oxygen partial pressure.
We have a high frequency signal
that did not dip with the others.
I don't recognize it.
CO2 partial pressure report.
4 millimeters.
- Onboard check.
- All is green.
Third cabin pressure
is stable at 101.3 kPa.
Requesting Omni Delta Mark 36…
Isolate it now.
Copy. Star City.
Omni Delta Mark 36 confirmed.
Can you… A location…
Then he threw her and then he caught her.
So I thought her face was gonna smash
into the side of the stage.
No. it was the most graceful thing
I've ever seen.
That was the last show we saw.
I'll have to perform for you
more often. It's…
- You will?
- Me. Yes.
And me with the help of my assistant.
Your assistant?
My assistant. One moment.
"Is your name Tanya?"
- Yes.
- "This is Tanya?"
Yes. this is Tanya.
Hello.
"Tanya. you are so beautiful.
Valya has told me about you many times."
"She is beautiful."
She is. She is.
She is the most beautiful woman
in the world.
And in space.
"That's right. In space.
You would know. You have been."
That's right. I have been.
"Do you think?"
What?
"Do you think she will kiss me?"
- No. not here in public. Jean-Pierre.
- Not here.
"Who is this man?"
That's Oleg.
He follows us everywhere.
"Do you think he will enjoy
the performance?
How do you think he will take it?"
Well. actually.
Oleg used to be a ballerina.
Very good.
Yes?
There's a signal coming from the ship
that's not ours.
It's…
It's on a frequency used by the Americans.
There's an American device on our craft.
How did that happen?
Seems to be some kind of transceiver.
Well. it must be sabotage.
Unlikely. given the type of device.
No. it's linked
to the onboard flight computer
on the descent module.
They seem to be trying to reverse engineer
- our automated systems...
- Disable it.
If I reboot the entire system.
it could cause their transceiver to fail.
but the risk to the mission is too high.
They're about to land on the moon.
Your measure of risk
is misguided. comrade.
Do it now.
Star City. Luna 17.
All ship systems are normal.
Lunar lander prepared
for separation and landing.
Good.
Now I'm gonna need you
to perform a power cycle
of the automated systems.
Did I read you correct. Chief Designer?
We're nearing the landing window.
It could risk our systems
not coming back up in time.
Yes. do it.
Copy.
Luna. is the system rebooting correctly?
Stand by. Chief.
Power cycle successful.
All systems normal.
Good.
Proceed with the landing.
Pavel. I'll grab you a moon rock.
- See you in two weeks.
- Have a good one.
Verify hatch integrity before undocking.
Command received. Ground Control.
Sealing lander hatch.
Don't miss me too much.
No danger of that.
Sealing orbital hatch.
How's my hair?
I want to look good for television.
Too late for that.
Undocking from Luna.
Luna 17. rate of separation normal.
Ready to begin descent.
Undocking normal.
Five meters.
Ten meters.
Capsule cleared.
Luna 17. begin program 37.
VHF Two. Reception is good.
Trajectory is 46-505. On target.
Ground Control. Luna 17.
We just had a massive jolt.
What was that?
Propulsion system pressures are normal.
Attitude looks good.
Something else must be wrong.
The hab.
It deployed early!
Fuck.
Ground Control.
the hab has deployed early.
Thrusters firing randomly.
We do not have control of the ship.
The system reboot.
it must have reset the whole thing.
Jettison the hab now.
That means we have to abort the landing.
Is that the only way?
Yes.
I'm sorry. Sasha. There's no other choice.
I understand.
Jettisoning the hab now.
- Sasha. hit the jettison button.
- I did.
It's not working.
Shit.
What do we do?
Switch to manual.
Clipping in.
- I can still dock us with the orbital.
- Are you crazy?
There's no way you could fly straight
enough with the hab still attached.
We don't have another choice. do we?
Do it. Initiate program 27 to separate
from the landing leg assembly.
We're in manual.
Flying back to the orbital.
Wobble getting worse.
Just gonna go to the toilet.
Be back in a second.
Sasha. go left five degrees.
You have to be perfectly aligned.
and the hab is dragging you off course.
Shit. I'm trying.
Still can't get control.
The ship's all over the place.
They're still too unstable.
They won't be able to
dock with the orbital.
not with the hab still attached.
You're gonna need
to depressurize the hab manually.
Go to the valve at the far end.
start the depress there.
You should have just enough time
to get back to the lander.
On it.
Sasha. three more degrees to the left.
I'm trying. I'm trying.
I can't get a handle on it.
Hurry up. Arseni. Get that dead weight
off. so I can dock this thing.
I am at the valve.
Switching to manual.
Hurry! I can't get a fix on the orbital.
Retraction at 10%.
Okay. That's better. that's better.
It's getting better.
I have more control. Keep going.
Hold her steady. Sasha.
We can get there. Retraction 20%.
Got to keep going. I'm getting
control back. It's getting better.
Sasha. two more degrees to the left.
You are still not aligned.
Steady. steady. You can do this.
You're almost there.
Retraction coming up on 30%. Sasha.
Hold it. We can get there.
Keep going. keep going.
We're almost there. Arseni.
We're close. We're close!
Retraction 40%.
It worked.
It worked. you brilliant bastard.
On track for docking.
Steady as you go. Sasha.
Come on. Come on. Sasha. Come on.
Yes. Sasha. yes!
We did it.
We did it. Arseni. We did it.
Arseni?
I can't do this anymore.
That was the last time.
You promised me.
You looked at me and you promised me.
you said to me.
"You do this. and that's it. It's over."
Well. I've done it.
All right?
I planted the transmitter on Luna 17.
Now I'm done.
The broadcast failed an hour ago.
You're far from done.
- Here we are.
- Thank you.
Yeah. that's fine. Thank you.